Rule Book
RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League (HSL)
RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League Technical Committee
https://hsl.robocup.org/
(DRAFT 2026 Working Rules Document, as of 2026-04-30)
Questions or comments on these rules should be submitted via the following channels:
• https://github.com/RoboCup-HumanoidSoccerLeague/HSL-Rules/
issues;
• Discord server: https://discord.gg/67upw6Nn, channel #rule-book;
• Email: hsl_tc@lists.robocup.org
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Contents
I Purpose and Scope of the RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 1
Vision and Mission Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Core Vision and Requirements for Legal Standard Robot Platforms . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Core Vision and Requirements for Constructed Robots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
II Notes and modifications 3
Notes on the Laws of the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Official Languages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Measurements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Gender-Neutral Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
General Modifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
III Laws of the Game 4
§ 1 The Field of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
§ 2 The Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
§ 3 Teams and Players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
§ 4 The Players’ Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
§ 5 Human Officials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
§ 6 Judgement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
§ 7 The Course of the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
§ 8 The Start and Restart of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
§ 9 The Ball In and Out of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
§ 10 The Method of Scoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
§ 11 Offsides . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
§ 12 Fouls and Misconduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
§ 13 Free Kicks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
§ 14 Penalty Kick and Penalty Shoot-Out . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
§ 15 Kick-in / Throw-in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
§ 16 Goal Kick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
§ 17 Corner Kick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
IV Law Changes 59
A Field Technical Drawings 60
II
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
I Purpose and Scope of the RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League
This document defines the purpose, scope, and rules of the RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League for
the international RoboCup competition, at the forefront of research, innovation, and education in
humanoid soccer across all forms.
Vision and Mission Statement
The RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League (HSL) will drive innovative research that advances the
software and hardware of autonomous robots, with a particular emphasis on robots deployed in
real-time, dynamic, partially observable, and multi-agent environments. The HSL is well suited to
advance research, development, and education in:
• Multi-robot systems (5+ robots) requiring decentralized coordination with limited communi-
cation over noisy channels.
• Robots that approach or approximate Human-like capabilities.
• A league that promotes research,
• Localization and state-estimation.
• Dynamic humanoid motor control.
• Real-time and on-board robot perception.
• Software engineering for autonomous robots.
• Hardware engineering for autonomous robots.
• Across topics, robot learning in all its forms.
In addition, the HSL aim to:
• Grow the community of humanoid soccer within RoboCup.
• Further education in robotics and is designed such that both teams with a primary focus in
research and teams with a primary focus in education are able to participate.
• Encourage active sharing of software and hardware designs for league-wide collaboration.
• Measure the capabilities of the league against the 2050 vision of RoboCup.
• Drive the vision and direction of the rules to encourage good quality soccer between between
evenly matched teams.
1
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Core Vision and Requirements for Legal Standard Robot Platforms
The HSL encourages and welcomes the use of standard humanoid robot platforms available within
the market to advance the state of humanoid robot soccer and the vision of the HSL.
With the HSL vision in mind, the core characteristics for standard humanoid platforms used within
the HSL are:
1. Capable of dynamic motions such as fast walking, kicking a ball off the ground, and getting
up from the ground;
2. Capable of running state-of-the-art AI neural network models for perception, decision-making,
and control;
3. Sufficiently small and affordable to reasonably allow teams to fund multiple robots and travel
with them to competitions;
4. Able to be programmed at a low level of control;
5. Well-documented to enable effective use and development by teams.
Core Vision and Requirements for Constructed Robots
The HSL equally encourages and welcomes the use of fully custom built or modified humanoid
robot platforms. To create a welcoming and fair environment for all robot platforms, the HSL
ensures the following:
1. Both store-bought and custom-built robots can participate in a fair competition without risking
damage to their robots.
2. The tournament is designed such that games are interesting for all participating teams and
match-ups are fair.
3. The tournament is designed such that all currently existing teams are able to participate.
4. Details about hardware and software of the robots is made available to teams and organizers
to ensure a fair competition and encourage scientific exchange.
5. League resources are distributed such that both store-bought and custom-built robots equally
benefit from them.
6. Robots are designed with the goal of RoboCup in mind, thus restricting the allowed sensors
where possible to humanoid sensors. Exceptions to this rule can be made if it benefits
scientific progress.
2
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
II Notes and modifications
Notes on the Laws of the Game
Official Languages
RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League Technical Committee publishes the Laws of the Game in
English.
Measurements
If there is any divergence between metric and imperial units, the metric units are authoritative.
Gender-Neutral Language
References to human referees, assistant referees, and officials are formulated using gender-neutral
language. References to robot players use the neutral pronoun it and its.
General Modifications
Subject to the agreement of the member association concerned and provided the principles of these
Laws are maintained, the Laws may be modified in their application for regional matches. Any or
all of the following modifications are permissible:
• size of the field of play
• size, weight and material of the ball
• width between the goalposts and height of the crossbar from the ground
• duration of the periods of play
• substitutions
3
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
III Laws of the Game
§ 1 The Field of Play
The competition consists of three distinct divisions, categorized specifically by the maximum
physical height and weight of the robotic platforms.
To ensure a fair and proportionate competitive environment, the field dimensions, number of players
and ball size will vary to align with the specific requirements of each division (see § 3 for more
details).
§ 1.1 Field surface
The matches are played on artificial turf with a height between approximately 20 to 30 mm, except
for the small division, which has a height between 8 and 12 mm, also approximately.
The color of artificial turf must be green. No particular shade is required, but the green must contrast
well with the field markings and the ball and should not be very dark.
§ 1.2 Field markings
The field of play must be rectangular and marked with continuous lines. These lines belong to the
areas of which they are boundaries.
The color of the field markings should be white, whether applied by tape, paint, or made from white
turf.
The two longer boundary lines are called touchlines (or sidelines). The two shorter lines are called
goal lines. The field of play is divided into two halves by a halfway line, which joins the midpoints
of the two touchlines.
A team’s half is the half of the field that is closest to the team’s own goal, where it primarily defends
against opposing attacks.
The center mark is at the midpoint of the halfway line. A circle is marked around it, defining the
center circle, a region used for kick-offs and other specific plays.
The goal area and the penalty area are defined using lines drawn at right angles to the goal line.
All lines must be of the same width, which must be between 5 and 12 cm.
4
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Figure 1: Annotated diagram illustrating the standard markings and key areas of a soccer field.
Figure 1 shows the field markings with the lines and its names.
§ 1.3 The goal area
Two lines are drawn at right angles to the goal line; the length and distance from the midpoint of the
goal line depend on the division.
These lines extend into the field of play and are joined by a line drawn parallel with the goal line.
The area bounded by these lines and the goal line is the goal area.
§ 1.4 The penalty area
Two lines are drawn at right angles to the goal line; the length and distance from the midpoint of the
goal line depend on the division.
These lines extend into the field of play and are joined by a line drawn parallel with the goal line.
The area bounded by these lines and the goal line is the penalty area.
5
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Field Width (meters) Length (meters)
S-Field (small field) 6 9
M-Field (middle field) 6 to 9 9 to 14
L-Field (large field) 9 to 14 14 to 22
Table 1: Approximate field sizes.
Within each penalty area, a penalty mark is made.
§ 1.5 The corner arc
A quarter circle from each corner is drawn inside the field of play. The radius of the arc is 0.5m for
the M-Field and 1.0m for the L-Field. The S-Field does not have corner arcs.
§ 1.6 Dimensions
There are three field sizes that can be used for the proposed divisions, described in Table 1.
Table 2 shows the dimensions of the S-, M- and L-Fields. Diagrams of the three soccer fields are
shown in Figures 2 to 4. Note that the Middle Division can be played on the S-Field or the M-Field,
while the Large Division can be played on both the M-Field and the L-Field. More detailed technical
drawings are provided in Section A.
Note that measurements are from the outside of the lines as the lines are part of the area they enclose
(as it is in the FIFA Rules).
§ 1.7 Goals
A goal must be placed on the center of each goal line. A goal consists of two vertical posts
equidistant from the corners and joined at the top by a horizontal crossbar.
The goalposts and crossbar must be made of wood, metal, or other approved material and must not
be dangerous to the players.
The goalposts and crossbar of both goals must be of the same shape, which must be square,
rectangular, round, elliptical, or a hybrid of these options. need a
figure how
goalposts
must be
placed on
the goal
line
The goalposts and crossbar must have the same width, which is not less than 7 cm and does not
exceed 12 cm. The goalposts and the crossbar must be white. Goal nets and any net supports may
be white, gray, or black.
Goals must be anchored securely to the ground.
6
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
ID Description S-Field M-Field L-Field
(all values in meters)
(former KidSize
and SPL)
(former
AdultSize) (similar to MSL)
A Field length 9.0 14.0 22.0
B Field width 6.0 9.0 14.0
C Goal length (depth) 0.5 to 1.0 0.7 to 1.2 1.0 to 2.0
D Goal width 1.8 to 1.9 2.4 to 2.6 2.6 to 3.1
E Goal Area length 1.0 1.0 1.0
F Goal Area width 3.0 4.0 5.0
G Penalty Area length 2.0 3.0 3.5
H Penalty Area width 4.0 6.0 7.0
I Penalty Mark distance 1.5 2.0 2.5
J Center Circle diameter 1.5 3.0 4.0
K Border strip width (min.) 1.0
L Corner Arc radius none 0.5 1.0
Line width 0.05 0.12
Penalty and center mark size 0.10 0.15
Table 2: Exemplary field dimensions by field type, in meters.
Off-the-shelf goals may be used if they satisfy these requirements.
§ 1.8 Technical Area
The Technical Area is the designated zone located on the sidelines. The GameController operator is
positioned centrally, aligned with the mid-field line. At a minimum, this area includes the official
tables and the space behind them. The boundaries may be extended at the committee’s discretion
through visual markings or official announcements during the event.
Each team is assigned a dedicated space on either side of the Game Controller operator:
• Home Team: Occupies the space to the right of the operator.
• Away Team: Occupies the space to the left of the operator.
This space is intended for all activities necessary for playing, including (but not limited to) operating
laptops, storing spair robots, and performing robot repairs.
7
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
A
B
C D
E
F IJ
K
K
G
H
Figure 2: Schematic diagram of the small soccer field – S-Field (scale: 1/80)
Division Width (meters) Height (meters) Depth (meters)
Small 1.8 to 1.9 1.2 to 1.3 0.5 to 1.0
Middle 2.4 to 2.6 1.5 to 1.9 0.7 to 1.2
Large 2.6 to 3.1 1.8 to 2.0 1.0 to 2.0
Table 3: Allowed ranges for goal dimensions.
§ 1.9 Definition of Inside and Outside
A robot is considered inside a region of the field if any part of its body is touching the ground inside
the region or its boundary lines. It is considered outside the region only when no part of its body is
touching the ground inside the region and its boundary lines.
The ball is considered inside a region of the field if any part of it overlaps or touches the boundary
lines that define that region, or if it is fully contained within the region, in the air or on the ground.
It is considered outside the region only when no part of it, or its downwards projection, remains
within or on the boundary lines of that region. This definition applies to any designated area of the
field, except the goal.
Exception for the goal: The ball is only considered inside the goal (and thus a goal is scored) if,
and only if, the entire ball has wholly crossed the goal-side edge of the goal line between the goal
8
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
A
B
C D
E
F IJ
K
K
G
H
L
Figure 3: Schematic diagram of the medium soccer field – M-Field (scale: 1/100)
posts and below the crossbar, i. e. when no part of the ball remains on or above the goal line, and
the entire ball is within the volume enclosed by the goal frame and the net.
§ 1.10 Venue Setup
Fields may be located close to one another. Barriers will not necessarily be constructed between
adjacent fields to block the robots from seeing other fields, goals, or balls. However, barriers will be
constructed to block sight between any fields that are not located at least three meters apart. Hence,
for each side of a field that is adjacent to another field, either barriers will separate the fields or at
least 3 m will be between the carpet of adjacent fields.
§ 1.11 Lighting Conditions
The HSL does not mandate specific or controlled lighting conditions for a match venue. It is
expected that the venue provides reasonable lighting suitable for general visibility (e. g. indoor with
artificial lighting, outdoor with natural lighting, or a combination of both).
The lighting conditions depend on the actual venue. Fields should be placed near or under windows
where possible.
9
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
A
BCD
E
F IJ
K
K
G
H
L
Figure 4: Schematic diagram of the large soccer field – L-Field (scale: 1/150)
Whether window lighting is used or not, ceiling lights should be provided as necessary so that most
of the field is at least 300 lx (preferably 400 lx). This lighting may include variations such as glare,
brightness, shadows, or mixed lighting conditions that can change throughout the match.
However, the lighting must be predominantly white, and colored lighting that significantly changes
the perceived color of the field or ball is not allowed.
Teams participating in the HSL are encouraged to design their robots to handle a variety of typical
lighting environments that may be encountered during a match. Natural and non-natural light must
be free to reach the field. The technical committee can delimit a zone near the field where humans
must not stand and where any items blocking the light sources are forbidden.
§ 2 The Ball
§ 2.1 Qualities and measurements
All balls must be spherical, made of or resembles the weight, form, movement characteristics and
appearance of leather or other suitable material.
10
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
The balls for each division1 are defined in Table 4.
Division Ball Type
Small FIFA Mini Ball
Middle FIFA size 3 or 4
Large FIFA size 5
Table 4: Balls used in each division
§ 2.2 Replacement of a defective ball
If the ball bursts or becomes defective during the course of a match: the match is stopped. It is
restarted according to the drop ball rule (see § 8).
If the ball bursts or becomes defective whilst not in play at a kick-off, goal kick, corner kick, free
kick, penalty kick or throw-in: the match is restarted accordingly.
If the ball becomes defective during a penalty kick or penalties (penalty shoot-out) as it moves
forward and before it touches a player, crossbar or goalposts, the penalty kick is retaken.
The ball may not be changed during the match without the referee’s permission.
§ 2.3 Additional balls
Additional balls which meet the requirements of § 2 may be placed around the field of play and
their use is under the referee’s control.
1The TC and OC will decide on only one type of the ball per division that will be used by all teams during the 2026
competition.
11
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3 Teams and Players
§ 3.1 Divisions and Configurations
A team belongs to one division, which is one of Small, Middle and Large. Main competition
matches only take place between members in the same division.
Teams in each division can choose to play in two team configurations: Foundation - with a smaller
number of players; and Advanced - with a larger number of players. If in a game one of the teams
chooses to play in a Foundation configuration, then both teams must play in this configuration to
ensure fairness. The maximum number of players in a game for each configuration is shown in
Table 5.
In the Middle division, starting from the quarter-finals onwards, all matches will be played in the
Advanced configuration.
The division and the configuration preference of a team must be submitted before the competition.
The division must not change during the competition itself. The division must be submitted at the
time of team registration. In addition, each team shall submit its preferred configuration prior to the
competition, by a deadline specified by the organizers, in order to enable proper field planning. A
team may request to play in a different configuration during the competition by submitting a request
to the organizers. Approval of such a request is at the sole discretion of the organizers.
§ 3.2 Number of Players
A match is played by two teams, each with a maximum number of players determined by the
division the game takes place in and the configuration level of the playing teams, as illustrated by
the following table:
Division Foundation teams Advanced teams
Small 4 7
Mid 3 5
Large 3 5
Table 5: Number of players
At most one player per team on the field may be designated as goalkeeper, the others are all field
players. When playing at full strength, a team must have a goalkeeper on the field.
12
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3.3 Number of Substitutes
In addition, each team may prepare substitute players outside the field. The number of substitute
players is not limited. A substitute player may be substituted in to become a field player or
goalkeeper.
§ 3.4 Substitution Procedure
In all matches, the jersey numbers of the substitutes must be given to the referee prior to the start of
the match. Any substitute whose jersey number is not given to the referee at this time may not take
part in the match.
To replace a player with a substitute, the following conditions must be observed:
• The referee must be informed before any proposed substitution is made.
• The substitution may only occur during a stoppage in the match.
• The player being replaced must first be removed from the field.
• The substitute only enters the field of play after the player being replaced has left and after
receiving a signal from the referee.
• The substitute enters the field of play at the standard re-entry point (on the touchline at the
height of the penalty mark in the robot’s own half, as used for returning from a penalty).
• The substitution is completed when the substitute enters the field of play.
• From that moment, the substitute becomes a player and the player replaced becomes a
substituted player.
• All substitutes are subject to the authority and jurisdiction of the referee, whether called upon
to play or not.
§ 3.4.1 Changing the Goalkeeper Any of the other players may change places with the goal-
keeper, provided that:
• The referee is informed before the change is made.
• The change is requested during a stoppage in the match.
13
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3.5 Robot Players
§ 3.5.1 The Design of the Robots Robots participating in the HSL must have a human-like body
shape with a torso, head, two arms, and two legs, as well as human-like symmetry and proportions
regarding sizes of the body parts and weight distribution.
The robots must be able to stand upright on their feet, to walk on their legs and to be able to recover
from a fall (get back to a standing position).
The only allowed modes of locomotion are bipedal walking, running, and jumping. Soccer related
movements such as dribbling, kicking, or other forms of ball handling are also allowed.
The design of the robot’s arms, including their length and placement, shall permit arm use and
behaviors that are reasonably comparable to those of humans. Examples of permitted uses include
assisting in getting up after a fall or picking up and throwing the ball (where otherwise allowed by
the rules).
Arm configurations that enable behaviors significantly different from those of humans are not
permitted. In particular, robots must not use their arms to provide continuous support for locomotion,
such as walking on arms or using arms as additional legs.
§ 3.5.2 Size Restrictions All robots participating in the HSL must comply with the following
restrictions:
The length of the legs Hleg, including the feet, satisfies 0.35·Htop ≤ Hleg ≤ 0.7·Htop, where Htop
is the height of the top of the robot. The length of the leg is measured from the first rotating joint
where its axis lies in the plane parallel to the standing ground to the tip of the foot.
A classic piece of human anatomy and art history, Leonardo da Vinci’s “Vitruvian Man” famously
depicts a man whose arm span is equal to his height, creating a 1:1 ratio. Therefore, the arm span,
Aspan, including the hands, should satisfy 0.8·Htop ≤ Aspan ≤ 1.2·Htop.
Based on Htop, the following size restrictions apply for each division:
• Small: Htop ≤ 1.1 meters;
• Middle: Htop ≤ 1.25 meters;
• Large: Htop ≤ 1.9 meters.
Htop is defined as the height of the robot when standing upright (with fully extended knees). Htop is
measured with the head of the robot oriented in such a way that it is tilted to either its maximum
upwards tilt angle or the horizon line, whichever is lower.
The height of the head Hhead, including the neck, satisfies 0.1 · Htop ≤ Hhead ≤ 0.3 · Htop. Hhead is
defined as the vertical distance from the axis of the first arm joint at the shoulder to the top of the
head.
14
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3.5.3 Weight Restrictions The robot’s Body-Mass Index (BMI) is defined as follows: BMI =
M
Htop2 , where M is the mass of the robot in kg and Htop its height in meters.
The Body Mass Index (BMI) of the robot should be: 5 ≤ BMI ≤ 30.
The following weight restrictions apply for each division:
• Small: Weight≤ 15 kilograms;
• Middle: Weight ≤ 25 kilograms;
• Large: Weight ≤ 80 kilograms.
§ 3.6 Approved Standard Platforms
The following commercially available robotic platforms are approved for participation in the HSL.
The following are the list of pre-approved standard platforms that require no modifications:
Manufacturer Model Restrictions
Aldebaran Nao V5, and Nao V6
Robotis DARwIn-OP
Booster T1, and K1
Fourier GR1, GR1-Pro, and GR2
Unitiree G1++, H1++
Additional humanoid robot platforms can be approved upon request. Please send your request for
approval to rc-spl-tc@lists.robocup.org. Change
to new
mailing
list when
ready§ 3.7 Hardware
Modifications or additions to the robot hardware are permitted as long as the resulting robot does
not become non-compliant with these rules.
No additional hardware is permitted, including off-board sensing or processing systems. Additional
sensors besides those originally installed on the robots are likewise not allowed.
§ 3.8 Sensors
Teams participating in the HSL competitions are encouraged to equip their robots with sensors that
have an equivalent in human senses. These sensors must be placed at a position roughly equivalent
to the location of the human’s biological sensors.
15
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
The sensors and their placement shall be chosen such that they allow the robot a spatial perception
similar to humans. The sensors are evaluated along the following two general guidelines:
1. Foster and encourage research and development towards human-like perception capabilities.
Sensors aiming to directly emulate human senses, like a camera or a microphone. Use of such
sensors is explicitly encouraged.
2. Enable research and development under the constraints of the current state of the art in
technology and research, as long as this does not undermine current research efforts as
declared in point 1.
Sensors that compensate for current shortcomings in technology and state of research, like
one-dimensional distance sensors with limited range, or two vertically arranged cameras in
the robot NAO.
Generally, passive sensors are preferred to active sensors that actively emit signals.
§ 3.8.1 Intrinsic Perception and Proprioception Any sensing capability aiming at measuring
the internal state of the robot is permitted. This includes temperature, current consumed by the
motors, joint positions, etc.
§ 3.8.2 Visual Perception The visual sensors, e.g., cameras of the robot shall be arranged such
that the combined visual field is contiguous and limited to dimensions similar to a human, which
corresponds to limitations in the opening angle: horizontal ≤ 220◦ and vertical ≤ 160◦. Please note
that these ranges may be adjusted to more human-like viewing angles in the future.
The visual sensors shall be located in the head of the robot.
The combined dynamic visual field that can be observed by the robot solely by moving its cameras
(similar to human eye movements) and the head is limited to horizontal ≤ 340◦ and vertical ≤ 220◦.
The cameras are restricted to visual information in the range of the light visible to humans.
The cameras can provide dense visual information, such as a rasterized image, or sparse information,
such as visual events (event cameras).
§ 3.8.3 Visual (dense) Depth Perception Passive integrated devices that provide dense depth
information, such as stereo cameras, are permitted and encouraged.
Active integrated devices that provide depth information, such as cameras with an active infrared
projector or time-of-flight cameras, are permitted but discouraged. Their use might be prohibited in
the future.
16
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3.8.4 Orientation Sensors providing information regarding the robot’s orientation in space
with relation to the ground are permitted. This includes sensors such as gyrometer, accelerometer,
as well as integrated inertial measurement units (IMU), as long as they provide only relative
measurements and no measurements of the absolute direction, such as a compass.
An IMU with an integrated compass can be used as long as the compass not used.
The sensors can be placed in the head and/or in the torso of the robot.
§ 3.8.5 Sound Perception The sound sensors, e.g., microphones, shall be placed in the head of
the robot. The number of microphones is not limited.
§ 3.8.6 Haptic Sensing Any passive sensor allowing haptic measurement is permitted, such as
force sensors, touch sensors, buttons/bumpers, capacitative touch sensors.
Haptic sensors can be placed at any location of the robot’s body and are not limited in number.
§ 3.8.7 Distance Sensing Active and passive sensors for one-dimensional distance sensing with
a limited range are permitted if their use is limited to compensate for shortcomings in the spatial
awareness of the robot in the close proximity.
The number of such distance sensors is limited to 4.
The use of distance sensors is discouraged and might be prohibited in the future.
§ 3.8.8 Summary The Table 6 summarizes the approved sensors. The use of listed sensors
that are considered human-like is encouraged. The use of listed sensors that are not considered
human-like is accepted, but discouraged and might be prohibited or limited in the future.
§ 3.9 Communication
Robots participating in the HSL competitions must act autonomously during a game.
Any use external power supply, teleoperation, remote control, remote processing, remote sensing,
or remote brain of any kind is prohibited.
Communication is only allowed among robots on the field, between the robots and the referees, and
between the robots and the GameController.
§ 3.9.1 Acoustic and Visual Communication The robots are permitted to communicate through
visual signaling (e. g., gestures) and / or acoustic signaling using the robot’s built-in microphones
and speakers.
17
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Sensor Type Human-Like Comments
RGB camera yes opening angle limit: horizontal
≤ 180◦, vertical ≤ 140◦
Stereo camera yes
Event camera yes
Active RGB-D based on infrared projection no discouraged
Active RGB-D based on time of flight (TOF) no discouraged
Microphone array yes
Gyro yes
Accelerometer yes
Compass no magnetic measurement sensors
are not allowed
Integrated inertial measurement units (IMU) yes no compass or must be disabled
and not used
Force sensors yes
Touch sensors yes
Buttons / Bumpers yes
Capacitive touch sensors yes
Near range infrared sensor no
Sonar / ultrasound sensors no
1D LIDAR and laser range sensor no with limited range
Intrinsic sensors yes temperature, current, joint
positions, etc.
Table 6: Summary of approved sensor types.
Communication that causes excessive discomfort to an audience, affects the safety of an audience,
or violates normal playing rules is not permitted.
§ 3.9.2 Wireless Communications: The robots are permitted to communicate through WiFi
using builtin wireless adapters.
A field is equipped with a wireless access point that must be used for any wireless communication
during the game. Only the teams involved in the game are permitted to use the access point during a
match.
18
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Each team will be assigned a range of IP addresses that can be used both for their robots and their
computers. The network configuration (e. g. IP addresses, channels, SSIDs, and required encryption)
of the fields will be announced at the competition site.
Wireless equipment and access points will be provided by the organizers of the competition. No
other 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz radio equipment (including cellular phones and/or Bluetooth devices) is
allowed to be used close to the field.
§ 3.9.3 Wireless Robot-To-Robot Communication: Wireless robot-to-robot communication
between the robot players is allowed and must use the access points provided by the event organizers.
Direct wireless communication between the robots (using the so-called ad-hoc mode) is prohibited.
Messages must be sent via UDP broadcast. Each message’s payload size must not exceed 512 B.
Each team will be allocated a single UDP port on which to send/receive their team messages.
Specifically, a team’s port will be 10000 plus that team’s GameController number.
Unicast communication between robots is prohibited.
Each team is allowed to send in total a maximum of 12000 messages during a complete game.
For each minute of additional time added by the Allowance for time lost rule (see Section 7), the
limit is increased by 600 packets.
Only messages sent by the robot players in the following game states count towards the communica-
tion limit: ready, set and playing. Any messages sent during other game states do not count towards
the teams message budget. Limits do not apply during penalty kick shoot-out.
The number and the size of the messages sent by each team is monitored by the GameController.
A violation of the permitted maximal size of a message or the maximal number of messages is
subject to penalty (see Section 12).
The limit of allowed packets will be lowered in future competitions to encourage a progress towards
human-like communication and coordination.
§ 3.9.4 GameController Communication: The GameController will communicate at 2
packet(s) per second.
Robots are required to respond to GameController messages and send status update packets to the
GameController.
The format for the GameController messages and for the responses is defined in the official
GameController2
2https://github.com/RoboCup-HumanoidSoccerLeague/GameController/blob/master/
game_controller_msgs/headers/RoboCupGameControlData.h
19
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3.9.5 Debug Communication: Team specific debug information may be sent to an external
computer owned by the team. Each robot may send debug information in a single UDP packet to a
single team device on the wired network. The robot may sent at most 1 packets per second. The
size of a single packet is not explicitly restricted, but must be within the maximum single UDP
packet size (typically 64kB).
§ 3.10 Safety
§ 3.10.1 Dangerous Equipment A player must not use equipment or wear anything that is
dangerous to himself or another player.
§ 3.10.2 Physical Stop Robot handlers must be able to immediately and physically bring a robot
to a safe state at any point in the game (see § 5).
It is the responsibility of the teams to ensure that a robot can be physically stopped by their handler
in case of emergency.
The team must be able to demonstrate their ability to physically stop their robots on request at any
time during the competition.
In order to ensure that a robot can be physically stopped a robot at any time, the robots can be
equipped with dedicated safety features.
Passive Features The robot can be equipped with passive components that allow for it to be
physically restrained without danger to the human handler. Examples of such components are grips
or handles on the back of the robot, and design features of the robot’s body that allows a human to
safely hold the robot.
Active Features The robot can be equipped with active components that makes the robot to
immediately stop all movements and assume a safe posture. Examples for such components are a
physical button on the robot, emergency switch on the robot, remote emergency button.
Remote Emergency Button Robots can be equipped with a remote emergency button. A remote
emergency button is a device that is not physically attached to the robot and can send a remote
signal to the robot causing it to stop all movement and assume a safe posture. Each emergency stop
button can only be connected to one specific robot. The remote emergency button cannot perform
any additional functions.
20
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 3.10.3 GameController Stop The robots must comply with the GameController protocol and
immediately assume a safe pose when the command is sent by the GameController as formulated in
§ 3.9.2 and § 7.1.7.
§ 4 The Players’ Equipment
§ 4.1 Team Markers
Robot bodies must be colored mostly with a neutral color, such as black, gray, white, or silver, and
be non-reflective.
Robots must use colored jersey shirts as team markers. A jersey is a tank top-style shirt that may
start at the neck and go down to the waistline, and does not cover the arms of the robots. It must
cover at least 50% of the upper body of the robot.
Each robot has a unique jersey number from the set {1, 2, 3, . . . , 20}.
Jerseys must have a primary color that comprises more than half of the jersey. The primary color
must be recognizable from the front and back.
Jerseys should not contain distracting patterns that could be confused with other elements of the
soccer field, such as field lines or the ball.
Jersey material must be non-reflecting, non-shiny, and non-glittery. Jerseys may be manufactured
from fabric and fine mesh.
The two teams must wear colors that distinguish them from each other and also the referee and the
assistant referees.
Each team must provide two jersey designs in distinctly different solid colors. The jersey color
must clearly contrast with any uncovered parts of the robot to ensure reliable identification.
Robots must display clear identification numbers (player number): a large number on the back and
a smaller number on the front.
The goalkeeper robot must be uniquely marked so that it can be easily distinguished from the other
robots on the same team by the referees (e.g., the player number may serve as a distinguishing
element).
The goalkeeper may use a distinct jersey color, either by wearing the team’s second kit or by
introducing a third, clearly distinguishable color.
Sponsorship logos are allowed only on the jerseys. Logos must not occupy more than 50% of the
jersey surface, ensuring that at least half of the jersey remains in primary color. Logos must not
21
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
interfere with the player numbers, and they must not include distracting patterns and colors that
could be confused with other elements of the soccer field, such as the field lines or the ball.
Jersey designs must be submitted for approval prior to the competition by a deadline specified by
the organizers. Jerseys shall be reviewed and approved by the technical committee prior to the
competition.
§ 4.2 Goalkeeper
The goalkeeper may use any of the allowed jersey numbers. The goalkeeper must wear a jersey
with a primary color different from the primary colors used by the field players of both teams.
22
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 5 Human Officials
Each match is run by a number of human officials. They are distinguished in two categories:
referees, neutral persons who have the the duty to enforce the rules of play and ensure the game
proceeds smoothly (including the GameController operator); and team officials, who belong to
either of the teams and perform specific tasks for that team.
The referees are assigned before the game: example modalities are by scheduling in official games
or by common agreement in friendly games.
As for team officials, each team selects theirs officials before the start of the game and communicates
their selection to the head referee during the pre-game meeting. One person may cover multiple
roles, unless otherwise specified.
§ 5.1 Equipment of human on the field
All humans on the field must not wear white or green footwear, socks, or any other foot covering in
these reserved colors.
All clothing worn on the field, including referee jerseys, must not contain distracting patterns or
designs that could be confused with elements of the soccer field, such as field lines or the ball.
They may also have equipment to communicate with each other, such as a headset or flags, if
available.
The referee jersey provided by the event is recommended for all referees but is not mandatory. The
head referee must also be equipped with a whistle, a coin, and yellow and red cards.
§ 5.2 Head Referee
The head referee is the principal authority of the game and takes all decisions regarding the flow of
the match and the enforcement of the rules.
§ 5.2.1 Decisions of the Head Referee The head referee takes decisions to the best of their
ability according to the rules and the spirit of the game. Any decision of the head referee is valid.
The head referee’s decision is final and can not be changed afterwards, even by video proof. There
is no discussion about decisions during the game, neither between the assistant referees and the
head referee, nor between the audience or the teams and the head referee.
The head referee communicates their decision via verbal calls, occasionally complemented by a
whistle sound.
Calls. The head referee announces decisions by a clear loud call, and (as required) whistle sound.
The whistle, or where there is no whistle the first verbal word of the referees calls, defines the point
23
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
in time at which the decision is made. The referees should make efforts to use consistent and clear
calls, and it is preferable for referees to use the calls as specified in these rules.3 The intention of
specifying the referee calls is for clarity and consistency across games.
Whistle. Where a whistle is required, the head referee first whistles and then announces the reason
for the whistle. The head referee may choose to use any normal sports whistle. Each whistle sound
should be short and not too loud as to interfere with other fields and simultaneous games. The head
referee must only sound the whistle in circumstances described in these rules.
§ 5.2.2 Powers and Duties The head referee enforces the rules of the game and controls the
match in cooperation with the assistant referees and the GameController operator.
The head referee adjudicates all infringements of the rules, and stops, suspends, or abandons the
match accordingly. They indicate the restart of play after it has been stopped. This is the
”advantage
rule”, de-
cide if we
want it or
not
The head referee may allow play to continue when the team against which an offense has been
committed will benefit from such an advantage, and penalizes the original offense if the anticipated
advantage does not actually ensue.
When a robot commits multiple offenses at the same time, only the most serious one is called.
The head referee should act on the advice of the assistant referee regarding incidents that they has
not seen.
The head referee has the right to take action against team officials who fail to conduct themselves
in a responsible manner and may, at their discretion, expel them from the field of play and its
immediate surrounds.
The head referee must stop the game if a human is seriously injured during play until that person
has left the field.
The head referee can stop, suspend, or abandon the match because of outside interference of any
kind, such as but not limited to: poor lighting or network conditions, or extraneous objects, animals
or people entering the field.
The head referee can request any robot be stopped if it becomes a threat to the safety of objects,
participants or spectators.
The head referee ensures that no unauthorized persons enter the field of play.
The head referee should avoid handling the ball (except for placing a ball for kick-off), and avoid
handling the robots. Their duty is to monitor and adjudicate the game. The head referee should only
3The calls specified in these rules are detailed in English. With the agreement of the teams, the referees may use
suitable calls in any language. The exception to this are technical challenges that depend on the calls as specified.
24
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
handle robots and the ball if absolutely necessary to expedite game-play, where the robot handlers
are otherwise occupied or too far away, and only if it doesn’t compromise their own safety.
The head referee may decide at any point before or during a game to relocate any objects around the
field, or direct persons to another position around the field.
§ 5.3 Assistant Referees
The assistant referees assist the head referee with offenses and other events when they have a clearer
view. For example, they indicate when the ball has completely crossed over the line of the field, and
which team is awarded the resulting goal or free kick. They can also point out rule violations that
occurred outside of the head referee’s view.
The assistant referees assist the head referee in officiating the match. They help monitor play, track
the ball going out of bounds, and communicate with the head referee about incidents they observe.
Assistant referees may replace the ball when it goes off the field or becomes stuck between a player’s
feet. Robot handling is performed by the designated robot handlers (see § 5), not by assistant
referees, unless otherwise discussed with teams beforehand.
Assistant referees should only enter the field to execute a decision made by the head referee. They
should not prevent robots from falling during the game.
A game normally has one or two assistant referees. The exact number is decided by the organizers
of the competition.
§ 5.4 GameController Operator
The operator of the GameController is a referee who sits at a PC in the technical area. As with the
head referee, the operator should make efforts to use consistent and clear calls.
They will signal any change in the game state or penalties to the robots via the wireless as they are
announced by the head referee. Note that for both kick-offs and goals, the moment of whistling is
determining, not the verbal announcement of the head referee. They should repeat the call of the
head referee as they do so, to confirm it was heard correctly.
The operator will also inform the robot handlers when a timed penalty is over and a robot has
to be placed back on the field. They should announce events that occur automatically in the
GameController due to elapsed time, such as the ball coming into play after a kick-off, penalty kick
or free kick, or the state changing from ready to set.
25
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
They are also responsible for keeping the time of each half. They should count aloud the remaining
seconds in a half once the time remaining is 5 s or less.
§ 5.5 Referee List for Friendly Games
During a competition, especially (but not only) during the setup days, several teams may want to
participate in friendly games with each other if a field is available to play in. People willing to
volunteer for judging these games as head referee, assistant referee or GameController operator may
submit their name to a list managed by the Organizing Committee, so that the teams organizing the
friendly game are aware of their availability. This is especially recommended for those who wish to
gain referee experience.
Ultimately, the teams organizing the friendly game are still free to decide whether to call volunteers
from the list or otherwise choose their referees.
The Organizing Committee is in charge of maintaining the referee list and should be approached at
the competition site if one should want to volunteer.
§ 5.6 Team Captain
The captain is a team official. They are the representative of the team for the game. They do not
have to be the team leader.
The team captain represents the team during the pre-game meeting.
The team captain is the only person allowed to communicate with the referees. This includes making
requests for pickup (Section § 12.2.5).
§ 5.7 Robot Handlers
The robot handlers are team officials. They are the only team members permitted to touch their
team’s robots, except when a robot is being serviced; in that case, any team member may touch it.
Each team must provide one or two handlers.
During the game, the robot handlers stay in a designated area and must receive permission from the
head referee before entering the field.
The robot handlers are tasked with removing their robots from the field when they are penalized,
picked up, or otherwise removed from play. They must do so as swiftly as possible when instructed
by the head referee, and with minimum interference with the game. Put either
here or in
forbidden
actions:
refusing
to follow
head ref’s
instruc-
tions is
considered
unsporting
conduct
When play is stopped, the robot handlers inform the head referee when their robots are ready to
resume.
Robot handlers should only enter the field to execute a decision made by the head referee. They
should not prevent robots from falling during an official game.
26
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
A robot handler may not touch a robot from a different team.
Use of the Remote Emergency Button Robot handlers are allowed to carry a remote emergency
stop button during a game (see § 3). This button must be worn either around the neck or on the
belt of the robot handler and must be clearly marked. Robot handlers must keep their hands clearly
away from the button unless the button is actively being pressed. Robot handlers can only use the
remote emergency button in the following two cases: (1) command by the main referee for the robot
to be stopped and removed from the game; (2) emergency situations where the robot’s behavior
poses danger to the humans outside of the field. Robot handlers must not use the remote emergency
button to intentionally incapacitate their robots with the aim of gaining advantage in the game.
§ 5.8 Humans Allowed on the Field
During the game, starting at the Ready state, only the following people are allowed on the carpeted
area (i.e. on the field and the surrounding border area):
• The referees;
• The robot handlers;
• And no one else.
In addition, only the team captains and at most two more people per team are in the Technical Area
(see § 1). This allows the referees easier communication with the team and the GameController
operator gets less disturbed.
§ 6 Judgement
§ 6.1 Pre-game Referee Meeting and Task Delegation
At least 15 min before the start of the game, the people who are going to serve as referees meet
up to discuss the upcoming game. At least, they must assign among themselves the roles of head
referee and GameController operator, with the remaining people acting as assistant referees.
The head referee should also communicate whether they are going to delegate any duties to the
assistants. Other topics that ensure a smooth cooperation among the referees can also be discussed.
The head referee should talk to the assistants to determine what tasks or lesser decisions, if any, they
wish to delegate to them to ensure that the game is arbitrated as smoothly as possible. This is left to
the discretion of the head referee, based on their expertise in the role and their ability to focus on
multiple events happening in the game at the same time and apply the corresponding rules.
27
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
The head referee must clearly communicate what tasks are delegated to which person, so that
everyone understands their duties during the game.
If no agreement can be found, the default is that the responsibility for most calls and decisions falls
upon the head referee, as determined by the rules.
Common examples of tasks that can be delegated are:
• Indicating when the ball leaves the field
• Determining which team is to be given a free kick when the ball goes out of the field
(Section 14) and communicating this to the head referee
• Indicating violations requiring a penalty, especially if they happened out of the view of the
head referee
• More ex-
amples
can be
added
Note that the final decision is still made by the head referee.
The above list is not prescriptive: the head referee can always choose to delegate zero, one, some, or
all of these tasks. It is also not exhaustive: through discussion among the head referee, the assistants,
and the GameController operator, other tasks not listed here may be identified and delegated.
Care should be taken to not overburden any one person and not to blur the roles of head and assistant
referees. Conflicts in the authority of the referees should be avoided, but if any do occur, the head
referee’s decision is final.
§ 6.2 Pre-game Team Meeting
Both teams send a representative called team captain to the field 10 min before their match starts.
This time should be used to welcome each other, assign team colors, choose side and kick-off, and
discuss any other topics related to the match.
§ 6.2.1 Assigning team colors. The teams agree on the jersey colors they will use during the
match, following the constraints outlined in § 4. The head referee should respect the teams’ wishes
as long as they fit within the constraints. If a suitable agreement cannot be reached, the head referee
must make the decision if possible, or propose an alternative solution.
§ 6.2.2 Choosing side and kickoff. The head referee flips a coin. The team who won the flip
can decide whether they will take the kickoff or choose which side to defend during the first half.
The team who lost the flip gets the other benefit.
28
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 6.3 Referee – Team Communication
During the match, only the team captains are allowed to communicate with the head referee.
After the match the teams thank the referees for their duty.
During all phases of the match teams and referees are communicating with respect to each other.
§ 6.4 Referees During the Match
The head referee and the assistant referees usually oversee the game from outside the field. Robot
handlers enter the field to remove or place robots when penalties are applied (see § 5). Referees
should avoid interfering with the robots as much as possible.
§ 6.5 Referees After the Match
At the end of the game, the head referee must provide the Technical and Organizing Committees
(or other relevant authorities) with a match report, which includes the final score and any relevant
information on incidents that occurred before, during or after the match.
29
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30initial
ready set playing finished
penalizedsafe
start
game states
Figure 5: Diagram of the game states. Dashed lines denote technical state safe. Dashed transitions
are activated through dedicated buttons or switches on the robot. Solid lines denote game states.
Transitions between game states are activated by the GameController. The transition from set to
playing (denoted by a double line) is additionally activated by a whistle. Final state finished
is denoted by double circle.
Discuss and integrate the Stop state.
§ 7 The Course of the Game
§ 7.1 Robot States
Throughout a match, robots transition through several defined states controlled by the GameCon-
troller. Robots must respond appropriately to each state transition. Figure 5 illustrates the game
states and transition between them.
§ 7.1.1 Initial The initial state is active before the game begins. Robots should be placed
in their starting positions by robot handlers. Robots are permitted to move their heads and perform
calibration routines but must not locomote (move their legs or walk).
§ 7.1.2 Ready The ready state begins when signaled by the GameController. During this state,
robots may autonomously move to their designated positions for kick-off or other set plays. The
ready state lasts 45 s. Robots must reach legal positions before the set state begins.
30
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 7.1.3 Set The set state indicates that robots must be stationary in their positions. Robots that
could not reach legal positions by the end of ready are penalized for Illegal Position during this
state.
No locomotion is permitted during this state, except for the minimum necessary to get up if the
robot has fallen. Movement of the robot’s head is also allowed. Any robot that moves its legs or
locomotes during the set state will be penalized for Forbidden Motion (see § 12.2.2).
The head referee signals the transition from set to playing by blowing the whistle. For kick-off
and drop ball situations, the GameController sends the playing signal with a delay of 10 s after
the whistle, to encourage teams to implement whistle detection.
§ 7.1.4 Playing The playing state is the main game state where robots actively participate in
the match. All normal game rules apply during this state.
§ 7.1.5 Penalized A robot in the penalized state has been removed from play due to an
infringement. The robot must remain stationary outside the field until its penalty time expires. After
the penalty expires, the robot autonomously re-enters the field from the designated re-entry point
(see § 12).
§ 7.1.6 Finished The finished state indicates the end of a game half or the match. Robots
should cease all game-related activity.
§ 7.1.7 Stop (Emergency Stop) This is
a tempo-
rary stop,
does not
have to be
emergency.
A sepa-
rate state
might
make
prob-
lems in
the imple-
mentation.
Needs dis-
cussion
on how
it can be
realized.
The referee may call an emergency stop at any time for safety reasons. When an emergency stop
is called, all robots must immediately cease all motion and behave as if in the set state. No
locomotion is permitted, not even for getting up. Robots must respond to this signal immediately.
Consequences
for not
complying
are to be
discussed
in the
next TC
meeting(s)
The head referee signals an emergency stop by calling “Stop Play” loudly and clearly. The
GameController will also send the emergency stop signal.
The game clock, secondary timers, and penalty timers are paused during an emergency stop. If a
team was in the process of taking a kick-off or a free kick, that information is retained when the
game resumes.
During an emergency stop, robots remain in place and must not be moved, except for untangling. If
the situation requires the robots to be removed from the field, a different call must be made, such as
a referee timeout.
Play resumes when the head referee determines it is safe to continue. The procedure for resuming
the game from an emergency stop is as follows:
31
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
• The ball is placed where it was at the time of the stop (if it was in play)
• All humans leave the field
• The head referee signals play to continue
• The game resumes in the same state as it was when it was stopped.
§ 7.2 Periods of Play
The match consists of three parts: the first play period (first half), a half-time break, and a second
play period (second half).
Each game period has a duration of 10 minutes, starting from the beginning of the Playing state of
the initial whistle.
For the second half, the teams change sides of the field, thus attacking the goal they used to defend
in the first half.
§ 7.3 Half-Time Break
The half-time break must be at least 10 minutes, unless otherwise agreed by the teams. When
multiple games are played on adjacent fields, the half-time break can extend to allow the referees to
move between fields, and any other time taken for such logistical considerations.
During the half-time break both teams may perform any modifications on the hardware or software
of the robots, change robots, or do anything else that can be done within the time allotted.
§ 7.4 Signals
The head referee uses a whistle to signal certain changes in the game phases (see § 7). The head
referee should make all whistle sounds from the T-junction of the halfway line. The following game
phases are signaled by a whistle:
1. playing – one short whistle blows;
2. finished at the end of the first half – two short whistle blows;
3. finished at the end of the second half – two short plus one long whistle blow;
32
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 7.5 Ready and Set States
In both knock-out and round-robin games, the game clock is not stopped during the Ready and Set
states other than the initial kickoff of a period.
§ 7.6 Allowance For Time Lost
Allowance is made in either period for all time lost through:
• substitutions
• assessment of injury to players
• removal of injured players from the field of play for treatment
• wasting time
• external circumstances (e.g., network issues)
• any other cause
The allowance for time lost is at the discretion of the head referee. It is announced during the final
minute of each half, and it is always expressed in whole minutes. The GameController operator
executes this addition of time using the GameController interface.
In exceptional circumstances, the head referee may decide to add time to the clock immediately
after an incident rather than waiting until the final minute of a half.
§ 7.7 Timeout
§ 7.7.1 Team Timeout Each team can call a maximum of 1 timeout per game with a total
time of no more than 5 minutes. During this time, both teams may change robots, change programs,
or anything else that can be done within the time allotted. During normal game time, a team may
call a timeout at any stoppage of play (after a goal, stuck game, before a half, etc.). Alternatively, a
team may call a timeout before a penalty shootout if they have not used their timeout yet (see § 14).
The timeout ends when the team that called the timeout says they are finished, at which time they
must be ready to play. The other team must be ready to play at the time the timeout runs out, or 2
minutes after a prematurely called end of the timeout, whichever is earlier. If the other team is not
ready to play in time, it must call a timeout of its own.
The clock stops during timeouts and is reset to the time when the current stoppage of play began.
After the completion of the timeout, the game resumes with a kick-off for the team which did not
call the timeout.
33
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
If a team is not ready to play at the assigned time, it must use its timeout. After the timeout has
expired, or if the team does not use it, the referee shall start the game with only the ready team on
the field, if the other team is still not prepared. The unready team may return its robots to the field
in accordance with the rules for “Request for Pick-up” (see § 12.2.5). If both teams are not ready,
the same procedure applies.
§ 7.7.2 Referee Timeout The head referee may call a timeout at any time if deemed necessary.
A referee timeout should only be called in exceptional circumstances—one example might be when
the wireless network is down or no robot responds to the GameController.
Referees may call multiple timeouts during a game if needed. Teams may do anything during these
timeouts, but they must be ready to play 2 minutes after the referee ends a timeout. The referee
should end the timeout once the circumstance for which the timeout was called has been resolved.
In cases where the circumstance is not resolved within 10 minutes, the Technical Committee should
be consulted regarding when or if play should continue.
If a team was going to have kick-off at the time the referee timeout was called (e.g., during most
stoppages of play), that team shall kick-off when the game resumes. Otherwise, the drop ball rule
(see § 8) applies instead.
§ 7.8 Mercy Rule
A game will conclude once the game score shows a goal difference of 10. Ending the game is
mandatory once a goal difference of 10 is reached.
§ 7.9 Forfeit Rule
Teams who do not make a good faith effort to participate in a scheduled game are considered to
forfeit the game.
If a team notifies the technical committee that they wish to forfeit less than two hours before their
scheduled game time, simply fails to show up for their game, or decides during their game that
they wish to forfeit, then the opposing team will play the match against an empty field. However,
any own goals will not be scored. Hence, after an opponent forfeits, the team playing against an
empty field cannot do worse than they were doing at the time the opponent decided to forfeit. Teams
may choose to forfeit at any stoppage of play. However, once a forfeit is announced, they may not
reverse this decision.
If a team notifies the technical committee that they wish to forfeit at least two hours before their
schedule game time, the following procedure will be followed.
• If a team chooses to forfeit a match in the round robin games the other team plays the match
against an empty field. However, any own goals will not be scored.
34
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
• If a team chooses to forfeit in a knock-out game it gets replaced by the next best qualified
team, i. e. the team it kicked out or left behind in the round robins.
Note that there are a few unlikely cases that are not covered by these rules. If a situation is not
covered by these rules, the technical committee and the organizing committee will work together to
make a decision.
Any forfeit will result in a qualification penalty being recorded but the circumstances of the forfeit
will affect the severity of the offense and the impact on future qualification.
§ 7.10 Ball Stop Rule
If the time for a period would end while the ball is still in motion, the period is extended instead
until any of the following events happens:
• The ball comes to a complete stop, or
• The ball leaves the field of play. If this causes a valid goal to be scored, the goal is counted.
This extension should last a few seconds at most.
§ 7.11 Penalty Kick Extension Rule
If the time for a period would end while a penalty kick is taking place, the period is extended instead
until the penalty kick is completed (see § 14). Note that this rule applies to any game state as long
as the penalty kick substate is active, including the Ready and Set preceding the actual kick.
§ 8 The Start and Restart of Play
A kick-off starts both halves of a match, both halves of extra time and restarts play after a goal has
been scored. Free kicks (direct or indirect), penalty kicks, throw-ins, a goal kicks and corner kicks
are other restarts (see Laws 13–17). A dropped ball is the restart when the referee stops play and
the Law does not require one of the above restarts.
If an offense occurs when the ball is not in play, this does not change how play is restarted.
35
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 8.1 Kick-off
§ 8.1.1 Procedure The team taking a kick-off is determined as follows:
• The initial kick-off of the first half is taken by the team who got this benefit during the
pre-game meeting (see 6).
• The initial kick-off of the second half is taken by the team who did not take the initial kick-off
of the first half.
• After a team scores a goal, a kick-off has to be taken by their opponents.
• Other situations, such as timeouts, have their own rules for determining the kick-off team.
For every kick-off, during the set state, the ball is positioned on the center mark and is stationary.
The players must follow these positioning rules:
• all players of the team not taking the kickoff must be in their own half of the field of play and
outside of the center circle,
• all players of the team taking the kickoff must be in their own half of the field or inside the
center circle,
• at most one player of the kicking team may be outside its own half (it must still be inside the
center circle). That player is designated as the kicking player for this kickoff.
Robots that do not follow these rules are penalized for illegal position. Then, the head referee gives
the signal to start play with a whistle. At this point, the following rules apply:
• the positioning rules above still apply until the ball is in play,
• if a kicking player was designated during the set state, that player must take the kickoff. If a
different player kicks the ball before the ball is in play, this is an offense and the kick-off is
retaken,
• the ball is in play when it is kicked and clearly moves, or 10 s after the referee has given
the signal, whichever happens first. In either case, the head referee or the GameController
operator will verbally announce this by the call “Ball Free”,
• a goal may not be scored directly against the opponents from the kick-off,
• if the team taking the kick-off has three or more robots on the field then two different robots
need to touch the ball before scoring a goal. If a team taking the kick-off has only two or less
robots on the field, the robot taking the kick-off has to touch the ball at least one time outside
the center circle before scoring a goal.
In order to encourage teams to recognize the signal to start play, the GameController application
will delay the playing signal, as specified in § 7.1.3. The delay applies regardless of when or how
the ball becomes in play.
36
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 8.1.2 Offenses and Sanctions
1. The regulations defined in the section § 12 apply (this includes in particular § 12.2.2 and
§ 12.2.1).
2. In the event of any offense during the kick-off procedure, the kick-off is retaken.
§ 8.2 Dropped Ball
§ 8.2.1 Definition A dropped ball is a method of restarting play when the referee stops the game
while the ball is in play, and no team is entitled to a kick-off, free kick, or any other specific restart
under these Laws.
Typical situations include, but are not limited to:
1. referee or system error,
2. a pause in game during the playing state that has been acknowledged by the head referee,
3. a global game stuck (see § 8.3.2).
§ 8.2.2 Procedure
1. Announcement and Preparation: The head referee announces “Dropped Ball”. The game
state switches to ready phase. No team is designated to take kick-off.
2. Ready: Robots assume their positions inside their own half.
3. Set: The robots must stop moving. No robot of either team is allowed inside the center circle.
The referee places the ball on the center mark.
4. Playing: The referee signals the start and the game switches to playing phase (see § 7).
The ball is immediately in play. A goal may be scored directly from a dropped ball.
§ 8.2.3 Offenses and Sanctions
1. The regulations defined in the section § 12 apply (this includes in particular § 12.2.2 and
§ 12.2.1).
2. In the event of any offense during the dropped ball procedure, the dropped ball is retaken.
37
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 8.2.4 Notes A dropped ball follows the standard kick-off procedure § 8 (including ready
and set), with the following exceptions: (1) no team has kick-off rights; (2) no robot is allowed
inside the center circle before the playing state; (3) the ball is immediately in play; (4) a goal
may be scored directly from a dropped ball.
§ 8.3 Game Stuck
Game stuck situations occur when play has stalled and intervention is required to resume normal
game flow.
§ 8.3.1 Local Game Stuck Local game stuck is called when the ball has not moved significantly
for 10 s while robots are in proximity to the ball. This typically occurs when robots are clustered
around the ball but unable to make progress.
When local game stuck is called:
• The robot nearest to the ball is penalized and removed according to the standard removal
penalty.
• The ball remains in its current position.
• Play continues immediately after the robot is removed.
The head referee calls “Game Stuck <robot color><robot number>”.
Local game stuck penalties do not count towards the incremental penalty count.
§ 8.3.2 Global Game Stuck Global game stuck is called when no robot has been within 1 m of
the ball for 30 s. This typically occurs when all robots have lost track of the ball or are unable to
approach it.
When global game stuck is called:
• Play is stopped.
• The game is restarted with a drop ball (see § 8).
The head referee calls “Global Game Stuck”.
38
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 9 The Ball In and Out of Play
The definition of the ball in/out of play refers to the definition of inside and outside in Section 1
(Definition of Inside and Outside).
§ 9.1 Ball Out of Play
The ball is out of play when:
• the ball is outside the field of play (i.e. not even touching/overlapping the boundary lines)
• the ball is inside the goal
• the ball is being handled by a referee during play (such as the referee replacing the ball under
Section 4 (Judgment))
• play has been stopped by the referee
§ 9.2 Ball In Play
The ball is in play at all other times, including (but not limited to) when:
• the ball rebounds off the head referee or a assistant referee, the goalpost, or the crossbar, and
remains inside the field of play (i.e., within the region bounded by the touchlines and goal
lines)
• the ball rebounds off a robot player, including a robot located beside the field but outside the
field of play, provided that the ball has not left the field of play during the rebound
• the ball rebounds off a robot handler who has been permitted by the head referee to enter the
field of play, provided that the head referee determines that the contact was not intentionally
caused by the robot handler
§ 10 The Method of Scoring
§ 10.1 Goal Scored
A goal is scored when the entire ball passes over the goal line, between the goalposts and under the
crossbar as defined in Section 1 (Definition of Inside and Outside), provided that no infringement of
the Laws of the Game has been committed previously by the team scoring the goal.
The restart of the play will be a kick-off for the opponents team.
39
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 10.2 Winning Team
The team scoring the greater number of goals during a match is the winner. If both teams score an
equal number of goals, or if no goals are scored, the match is drawn.
§ 10.3 Permitted Tiebreakers
When competition rules require there to be a winning team after a match or home-and-away tie, the
only permitted procedures for determining the winning team are:
• Extra time (2 additional equal periods of no more than 5 minutes each)
• Penalty shoot-out (see § 14)
Before each additional time period and penalty shoot-out, a five-minute break shall take place. This
break follows the same rules as the half-time break (see § 7).
§ 11 Offsides
Offsides are not used in the RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League.
§ 12 Fouls and Misconduct
The following actions are forbidden. In general, when a penalty applies, the robot shall be removed,
not the ball.
§ 12.1 Penalty Procedure
When a robot commits an infraction, the head referee shall call out the infraction committed, the
team color of the robot, and the jersey number of the robot. The penalty for the infraction will
be applied immediately. The robot handlers should perform the actual movement of the robots
for the penalty so that the head referee can continue focusing on the game. The operator of the
GameController will send the appropriate signal to the robots indicating the infraction committed.
Unless otherwise stated, all infractions result in the removal of the infringing robot from the field
of play for a particular amount of time, after which it will be returned to the field of play (see
Subsection 12). If a robot commits an offense in the vicinity of the ball (within the free kick
avoidance radius, which is the center circle radius for the respective field size - see Table 2), the
game is interrupted and the offending player is removed according to the standard removal penalty.
40
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
After the offending robot is removed, the opposing team restarts play with a free kick (see § 13). If
the offense occurred away from the ball, the offending robot is penalized and removed, but play is
not interrupted.
For penalties that are timed, the penalty time is considered to be over at the end of each half.
§ 12.2 Standard Removal Penalty
Unless otherwise stated, all infractions result in the removal of the infringing robot from the field of
play for a particular amount of time, after which it will be returned to the field of play. This process
is called the standard removal penalty.
When the head referee indicates an infraction has been committed that results in the standard
removal penalty, the robot handler for that team will remove the robot immediately from the field of
play. The robot should be removed in such a way as to minimize the movement of the other robots
and the ball. If the ball is inadvertently moved when removing the robot, the ball should be replaced
to the position it was in when the robot was removed.
The GameController will send the appropriate penalty signal to the robot indicating the infraction
committed. After a penalty is signaled to the robot, it is not allowed to move in any fashion except
for standing up or sitting down.
The initial duration of the standard removal penalty time is 30 s. Unless otherwise specified, the
penalty time increases by 15 s each time a team commits any infraction. During the set state the
penalty time counter will not decrease. The GameController will keep track of the time of the
penalty.
After a robot is penalized and before it starts serving its penalty, the robot handler may hand it over
to its team who may perform maintenance on the robot. The penalty timer does not decrease while
maintenance is being performed.
To serve its penalty, the removed robot is placed on the touchline at the height of the penalty mark
of its own half and facing the opposite touchline. The robot must be placed fully outside of the field.
If the position at the height of the penalty mark is already occupied, a nearby position is chosen.
When finding a nearby location, it must still be in the robot’s own half, so that the symmetry of the
field can be resolved by the robot’s localization system. After the robot is placed, the robot handler
announces “<robot color><robot number>Ready”, after which the GameController operator starts
the penalty timer. After the penalty time elapses, the GameController operator will remove the
penalty from the penalized robot, enabling it to autonomously re-enter the game without requiring
additional intervention from the referees.
If any team member interferes with the robot after it has started serving its penalty time (including
button presses or connecting cables), the team member and the robot receive a warning, and the
penalty timer is reset.
41
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Standard Removal Penalties are issued for the following offenses:
• Illegal positioning*
• Motion in set*
• Local game stuck*
• Incapable robot*
• Request for pick-up
• Ball holding
• Leaving the field
Offenses marked with a star (*) do not increase the incremental penalty count
§ 12.2.1 Illegal Positioning A robot is considered to be illegally positioned if, during the set
phase, it is located outside the field of play, within the opposing team’s half, or within the center
circle when its team does not have kick-off. A robot is also considered to be illegally positioned
if it encroaches into the avoidance areas during a free kick (see 13) or penalty kick (see 14). The
referee should not measure exact distances for avoidance areas and shall only penalize robots that
are clearly violating this rule. A robot making a reasonable effort to return to the field of play
following a standard penalty shall not be penalized for illegal position.
A robot penalized under illegal positioning has the “Illegal Position” penalty applied. Illegally
positioned robots are subject to the standard removal penalty (see § 12). The head referee will
call “Illegal Position <robot color><robot number>”. Referees may use “Illegal Defender”
interchangeably to help with clarity. For simplicity, Illegal Positioning penalties do not count
towards the incremental penalty count.
During the set and playing states, at most three players can be within their own goal area at the
same time. A robot is within the goal area if any part of its body is touching the ground inside the
goal area or touching one of its lines. An “Illegal Position” penalty is applied when any additional
players enter the area in playing, or to the excessive players closest to the border of the goal area
in set. Note that if a player is pushed into the goal area by an opponent, this robot will not be
subject to removal, unless it fails to exit the area within 5 s (or 5 s after getting up if the pushing led
to falling).
If an illegal defender kicks an own goal, the goal is scored for the opponent. If there is any doubt
about whether a goal should count (e.g., the illegal defender infraction is called, but the robot scores
the own goal immediately afterwards, before it is removed), then the decision shall be against the
infringing robot.
42
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 12.2.2 Motion in Set Robots that begin moving their legs or locomote in any way during the
Set phase, except for standing up after a fall, are awarded a standard penalty. The head referee will
call “Motion in Set <robot color><robot number>”. Note that falsely responding to a whistle on
another field will result in this penalty. This rule does not apply to the movement of heads or arms.
Motion in Set penalties do not count towards the incremental penalty count.
§ 12.2.3 Local Game Stuck Penalty When Local Game Stuck is called (see § 8.3.1), the nearest
robot to the ball will be penalized according to the standard penalty. Local Game Stuck penalties do
not count towards the incremental penalty count.
§ 12.2.4 Incapable Robot A robot is considered incapable, if it has ceased activity for 10 s or
has been turned off.
For the purpose of this rule, a robot is considered active, if it performs at least one of the following
actions:
1. Walking in any direction or turning
2. Searching for the ball or tracking the ball
A robot that has fallen is considered incapable, if it does not attempt to get up within 20 s or fails to
get up within 3 attempts, or 4 when externally disturbed during initial attempts.
An incapable robot must be removed from the field of play and awarded a standard penalty. In
such cases, the head referee shall announce “Incapable robot <robot color><robot number>”.
Incapable Robot penalties do not count towards the incremental penalty count.
Note: This rule is not intended to penalize robots solely for remaining stationary, provided they are
responsive and have not crashed.
Player Stance. Robots must not maintain a stance wider than a reasonable proportion of their
body width for longer than 10 s. As a guideline, the stance should not exceed approximately 1.5
times the robot’s shoulder width. A robot staying in an excessively wide stance for longer than 10 s
is considered to be incapable of playing, resulting in a standard removal penalty (see above).
§ 12.2.5 Request for Pick-up A robot handler may request to pick up a robot if and only if a
robot is in a dangerous situation that is likely to lead to physical injuries. The head referee must
approve this request prior to the robot handler touching the robot. If a team member touches a robot
without the permission of the referee, the respective robot and the person touching it each receive
an official warning.
The referee may deny a request for pick-up. A pick-up is not granted for reasons such as being
incorrectly configured or being unable to see the ball.
43
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 12.2.6 Ball Holding The goalkeeper is allowed to hold the ball for up to 10 s as long as it has
at least one foot inside its own penalty area. In all other cases, robots are allowed to hold the ball
for up to 5 s. Holding the ball for longer than this is not allowed. A robot is holding the ball, if
the convex hull of the robot is covering more than half of the ball. It does not matter whether the
offending robot is actually touching the ball. Repeatedly releasing and holding the ball in quick
succession is treated as one continuous hold, even if individual holds are shorter than 10 s. In
general, robots should release the ball for approximately as long as they were holding it to reset the
clock.
Ball holding may not be called when a robot falls on a ball. The robot will either get up and hence
free the ball, or the robot should be removed under the Fallen Robot rule. Further, ball holding may
not be called when the ball becomes stuck between a robot’s legs. In such a situation, the head
referee should call “Clear Ball” and a robot handler or assistant referee should remove the ball and
place it approximately where it was before it became stuck.
If a ball holding offense was committed, the head referee will call “Ball Holding <robot
color><robot number>”, and the robot is removed under the standard removal penalty. The
ball should be removed from the possession of the robot and placed where the penalty occurred. If
the robot that held the ball has moved the ball before the robot can be removed, the ball shall be
replaced where the penalty occurred. This also applies to accidental goals.
Example: A robot holds the ball, and before the referees can remove the robot, it shoots the ball
into the goal. The goal will not be counted, and the ball will be replaced where the penalty occurred.
§ 12.2.7 Leaving the Field A robot that leaves the carpeted playing area will be subject to
the standard removal penalty. The head referee will call “Leaving the Field <robot color><robot
number>”.
Additionally, a robot will also be subject to the standard removal penalty when:
• The robot walks into the goalposts or goal net for more than 5 s, including robots that are
stuck on the goalposts and unable to free themselves.
• The robot’s fingers or other appendages become entangled in the net (without any time
constraint).
§ 12.3 Cautionable Offenses
The referee applies disciplinary sanctions through warnings, cautions (yellow cards), and sending-off
offenses (red cards). A warning is an official verbal admonishment. The issuance of two warnings
to the same player during a match results in a caution (yellow card). A yellow card constitutes a
formal caution. The issuance of two yellow cards to the same player in the same match results in a
44
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
sending-off (red card). A red card requires the player to be sent off. The player must immediately
leave the field of play and the technical area and may not participate further in the match.
Cards and warnings issued to players are cleared after the final whistle and do not persist between
games.
Teams may substitute a player who has received official warnings or cautions as usual. However,
all warnings and cautions issued to the substituted player are transferred to the player entering the
field. Players who have been sent off may not be substituted. As a result, the team must play the
remainder of the match with one fewer player.
Warnings are issued for the following offenses:
• Manual interaction by team members
• Playing with arms or hands
Cautions are issued for the following offenses:
• Damage to the field
• Pushing
• Receiving two warnings
Players are sent off for the following offenses:
• Endangering any human
• Repeated deliberate violations of the rules
• Actions that could cause significant damage to other robots
• Receiving two cautions
§ 12.3.1 Manual Interaction by Team Members Manual interaction with the robots, either
directly or via some communications mechanism, is not permitted. Team members (that are not
robot handlers) can only touch one of their robots when a robot handler hands it over to them after a
it has been penalized or substituted.
45
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 12.3.2 Playing with Arms or Hands Playing with arms/hands occurs when a field player or a
goalkeeper outside its own penalty area moves its arms/hands to touch the ball (except during a fall
or get-up). The goalkeeper is allowed to touch the ball with its arms/hands while it is within its own
penalty area.
A robot playing with arms/hands will be subject to the standard removal penalty and receive an
official warning. In severe cases, e.g. using the hand or arm to deny the opposing team a goal,
a caution may be awarded instead of a warning. The ball will be replaced at the point where it
contacted the arms/hands of the offending robot. If an own goal is scored as a result of playing with
arms/hands, the goal should count and the player should not be penalized.
Accidental playing with arms/hands when a robot falls or executes a get-up routine will not be
penalized. If the ball goes out of play in this case, normal kick-in rules will apply (see § 15).
However, goals (except for own goals) resulting from a ball contact with the arms/hands during a
fall or get-up do not count and result in a Goal Kick (see § 16) as if the ball went over the goal line
next to the goal.
§ 12.3.3 Damage to the Field A robot that damages the field, or poses a threat to spectator
safety is removed from the field according to the standard penalty and receives a yellow card. In
severe cases, the robot may receive a red card instead.
§ 12.3.4 Pushing Pushing is any direct or indirect contact with an opponent robot that is either
forceful enough to destabilize the opponent or continues for more than 5 s, even when the applied
force is minimal. Front-to-front contact between robots does not constitute pushing, unless one robot
is moving with significantly more force or speed than the other. Pushing may only occur between
players of different teams. A robot pushed by another robot cannot simultaneously be called for
pushing itself. In this case, only the initially offending robot will be penalized. A stationary robot
cannot be penalized for pushing, including a robot that is kicking, provided that the ball was close
enough where a kick could have succeeded at the start of the kick motion.
If a pushing offense is committed, the head referee will call “Pushing <robot color><robot
number>” and the offending player will be cautioned and removed from play according to a
standard penalty. If the ball moves significantly as a result of pushing, then it should be replaced to
where it was at the time of the infraction.
§ 12.4 Aborting a Penalty
If a penalty was incorrectly applied to a robot and acknowledged by the referee to be incorrect, the
robot should first be removed and placed outside the field, following the same process as for the
Standard Removal Penalty (see § 12). Once placed, the robot should then be allowed to continue
play immediately after being placed and the GameController removes its penalty.
46
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
The aborted penalty will not be added to the total team penalty count and will not contribute to the
incremental penalty increase.
§ 12.5 Untangling
If entangled robots fail to untangle themselves, the referee may ask designated robot handlers of
both teams to untangle the robots. Untangling must not make significant changes to robot positions
or heading directions. Untangled robots must be placed on the ground no closer than 50 cm to the
ball and in a way that does not give either team an advantage. Being entangled does not incur a
penalty.
§ 12.6 Jamming
During a match, robots shall not jam the communication and sensor systems of the opponents:
§ 12.6.1 Wireless Communication If a team violates the general regulations defined in § 3,
penalties will apply. First violation will result in a warning. Repeated violation might result in
disqualification from the tournament (including all technical challenges and side competitions).
§ 12.6.2 Wireless Robot-To-Robot Communication Any team that exceeds the limits for
wireless robot-to-robot communication defined in § 3.9.3, as tracked by the GameController, will
have all goals automatically nullified for the game.
§ 12.6.3 Acoustic interference Both teams and the audience shall avoid intentionally confusing
the robots by producing sounds similar to the game whistle or to sounds used by the robots to
communicate with each other.
§ 12.6.4 Visual perception The use of flashlights or other bright light sources is not allowed
during games. However, flash photography from the audience is allowable as long as the head
referee believes the purpose is not to jam any of the robots.
§ 12.7 Penalties Against Teams or Humans
The referee can issue warnings, yellow and red cards against humans or teams at their discretion.
Cards can be issued for offenses such as:
• Offensive, violent or abusive behavior
• Repeatedly ignoring referee instructions
• Repeatedly entering the field without permission
47
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
• Breaking the game rules to gain an advantage
Cards that are issued against humans or teams must be reported to the Organizing Committee
immediately after the game. Cards against humans or teams persist between games. A human
who receives a red card will be prohibited from entering the field or team area during games for
the remainder of the competition. A team that commits serious or repeated violations may be
disqualified from the competition.
§ 13 Free Kicks
A free kick is a method of restarting play after various stoppages.
A free kick is initiated in the following situations:
• When the ball goes over the touchlines, termed Kick-in or Throw-in (see § 15).
• When the ball goes over the goal line having last touched a player of the defending team,
termed Corner Kick (see § 17).
• When the ball goes over the goal line having last touched a player of the attacking team,
termed Goal Kick (see § 16).
• When an infringement is awarded that requires play to be stopped (see § 12), termed a Pushing
Free Kick.
The head referee will announce a free kick by calling one of:
1. “Kick-in <color>” / “Throw-in <color>” for the team awarded the kick-in.
2. “Corner Kick <color>” for the team awarded the corner kick.
3. “Goal Kick <color>” for the team awarded the goal kick.
4. “Foul <offending color><offending number>” for pushing free kicks.
The GameController will then activate the sub-state for the respective free kick. The team awarded
the free kick (termed the attacking team) has 45 s to complete the kick. Free kicks are classified as
either direct or indirect (see § 13).
48
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 13.1 Direct Free Kick
A direct free kick allows the attacking team to score a goal directly from the kick:
• If a direct free kick is kicked directly into the opponent’s goal by the attacking team, a goal is
awarded.
• If a direct free kick is kicked directly into the team’s own goal, a corner kick is awarded to
the opposing team.
The following set plays are direct free kicks: Corner Kick, Goal Kick, and Pushing Free Kick.
Note: If the attacking team fails to execute the free kick within the time limit, the defending team
may also score directly (see Failed Free Kick in § 13).
§ 13.2 Indirect Free Kick
An indirect free kick requires the ball to be touched by another player before the attacking team can
score a goal:
• A goal can only be scored by the attacking team if the ball has been touched by another player
(of either team) after the kick, before being kicked again into the goal.
• If an indirect free kick is kicked directly into the opponent’s goal by the attacking team
without touching another player, a goal kick is awarded to the opposing team.
• If an indirect free kick is kicked directly into the team’s own goal, a corner kick is awarded to
the opposing team.
The following set plays are indirect free kicks: Kick-in / Throw-in.
Note: If the attacking team fails to execute the free kick within the time limit, the defending team
may score directly without the indirect requirement (see Failed Free Kick in § 13).
§ 13.3 Execution
The referee places the ball according to the type of free kick (see § 15, 16 and 17 for specific ball
placement rules). For a Pushing Free Kick, the ball is left in place.
§ 13.3.1 Ball Position and Placement All free kicks are taken from the place where the offense
occurred, except:
49
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
• Indirect free kicks to the attacking team for an offense inside the opponents’ penalty area are
taken from the nearest point on the penalty area line which runs parallel to the goal line.
• Free kicks to the defending team in their goal area may be taken from anywhere in that area.
When the referee calls for a free kick, play must also be stopped (see § 7.1.7). Once the robots
become stationary, the referees will place the ball in the appropriate position. Then, the head referee
gives the signal to resume play and commence the free kick.
The ball must be stationary as play resumes, and is in play when it is kicked and clearly moves as
determined by the referee. The ball is also considered in play 45 s after the referee gave the signal.
§ 13.3.2 Avoidance Region and Distance Requirements During a free kick, only the attacking
team may approach within the avoidance region of the ball. For all free kicks, the avoidance region
is the center circle radius for the respective field size (see Table 2). This means the same exclusion
zone as during kick-off applies to all free kicks, an opponent robot must remain outside this radius
from the ball until it is in play.
Until the ball is in play, all opponents must remain outside of this avoidance region, unless they are
on their own goal line between the goalposts, and outside the penalty area for free kicks inside the
opponents’ penalty area.
All robots of the defensive team must immediately move away from the ball to outside the avoidance
region when the free kick is awarded. Defensive robots that violate these restrictions are penalized
with “Illegal Positioning” (see § 12.2.1), which results in a standard removal penalty (see § 12).
Additional penalties against any further robots during the free kick, including pushing, do not result
in an additional free kick but still incur the appropriate removal penalty.
§ 13.3.3 Sanctions and Retakes If, when a free kick is taken, an opponent is closer to the ball
than the required distance, the opponent receives a removal penalty and the kick is retaken.
§ 13.3.4 Completion A free kick is deemed completed and play returns to normal when:
• The attacking team moves the ball clearly (except for a robot getting up, which is exempt
from this rule), or
• The 45 s time period expires (or game time expires).
The head referee announces completion by calling “Ball Free”, and the GameController resumes
the playing state.
50
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 13.3.5 Failed Free Kick If the attacking team fails to execute the free kick within the allotted
45 s, the free kick expires and play resumes normally. In this situation:
• The defending team may play the ball immediately after the free kick expires.
• If the defending team plays the ball first (before the originally attacking team), they may
score a direct goal regardless of whether the original free kick was direct or indirect.
Example: The blue team is awarded a kick-in (indirect free kick) but does not play the ball within
45 s. The referee calls “Ball Free”. A red robot immediately kicks the ball directly into the blue
goal. The goal counts, as the failed-free-kick exception allows the defending team to score directly.
§ 14 Penalty Kick and Penalty Shoot-Out
§ 14.1 Penalty Kick
A penalty kick is awarded against a team that commits an offense for which a direct free kick
(see § 13) is awarded, inside its own penalty area and while the ball is in play. A goal may be scored
directly from a penalty kick.
§ 14.1.1 Procedure During normal play, if a penalty kick is awarded, the head referee calls
“Penalty Kick <color>” for the team that will be performing the kick4. The GameController
immediately transitions to the ready state, with a specific field in the message informing the robots
that a penalty kick is about to take place.
During the ready state, the robots have 30 s to reach valid positions for the penalty kick, according
to the following rules:
• The defending goalkeeper must have both its feet on the goal line.
• At most one robot of the kicking team may be inside the defending team’s penalty area. It
may not block the penalty mark during the set state.
• All other robots must be outside the penalty area and at least one center circle radius (see
Table 2) from the penalty mark.
• If multiple robots of the kicking team violate these rules, the only robot to not be penalized
shall be the one that is closest to the penalty mark without blocking it.
4This is a change from previous Standard Platform League (SPL) rules.
51
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
• All robots other than the defending goalkeeper must be behind the defending team’s penalty
mark.
When the ready time ends, the GameController transitions to set with the penalty kick sub-state
active. The following actions take place:
• If the defending goalkeeper is not positioned correctly, it is manually placed on the closest
point of the goal line that is not blocked by a goal post. The goalkeeper is moved in a direction
perpendicular to the goal line, and its orientation is left unchanged.
• The positioning rules above enter into effect. Robots that violate them are penalized for illegal
position.
• The referees position the ball on the penalty mark.
The head referee commences the penalty kick by blowing the whistle once and calling “Playing”.
The GameController activates the playing state after the standard delay (see § 7.1.3). During this
state:
• The defending goalkeeper must remain on its feet (it is not allowed to ”dive”) until the ball is
touched by the kicking team or the penaltty kick is complete.
• The positioning rules remain into effect for the same duration.
The time limit for the penalty kick is 60 s after play begins. The penalty kick ends when:
• The ball comes to a complete stop after the first contact by the striker robot.
• The striker robot touches the ball a second time after the ball has clearly moved.
• The ball leaves the field of play.
• The time limit expires.
• A goal is scored.
A goal is awarded to the attacking team if the ball completely crosses the goal line between the
goalposts and under the crossbar before the penalty kick ends, provided no infringement has
occurred.
52
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 14.1.2 Infringements and Sanctions If the goalkeeper violates the positioning rules (leaves
the goal line early or dives before the striker touches the ball), the penalty kick ends immediately
and a goal is awarded to the attacking team.
If the striker violates the rules (touches the ball a second time after it has moved), the penalty kick
ends immediately with no goal awarded.
All standard rules such as Ball Holding and Pushing are applied during the penalty kick, but they do
not result in additional free kicks. A goalkeeper will not be penalized for inactivity during a penalty
kick, provided it is actively attempting to defend the goal.
§ 14.2 Penalty Kick Shoot-Out
A penalty kick shoot-out is used to determine the outcome of a tied game when an outcome is
required (for example, during knockout rounds, quarterfinals, semifinals, third place match, or final).
All penalty kicks are taken against the same goal.5
The team listed first on the competition schedule will have the striker robot for the first penalty kick.
Subsequently, both teams take kicks alternately. The penalty kick shoot-out will consist of three
penalty kicks per team. A team that has scored the most goals at the conclusion of these will be
declared the winner. A winner can also be declared before the conclusion of the penalty shoot-out if
a team can no longer win mathematically. If the two teams remain tied after three penalty kicks,
then a sudden death shoot-out will follow until a definite winner is found.
The penalty kick shoot-out starts immediately without changing any code after the second half
ended. No timeouts may be called during the penalty shoot-out. However, a team may request a
timeout before the penalty shoot-out starts if they have a timeout remaining for this game. During
the timeout, code changes are allowed.
Before the penalty shoot-out begins, each team must hand over to referees up to 6 prepared robots
that may participate in the penalty shoot-out. No robots may be added once the penalty shoot-out
starts. Robots that will not participate in the shoot-out must not be on the wireless network and
must stay outside of the field. All participating robots must be wearing the correct jersey for their
player number and no duplicate numbers are permitted.
During the entire penalty kick shoot-out, the robots are controlled by the GameController and the
referee’s whistle. A team cannot request the referees to press buttons on their robots, except for
initially leaving the initial state.
§ 14.2.1 Penalty Kick Procedure A penalty kick is carried out with one striker robot and one
opposing goalkeeper. Before each penalty kick, both teams must select the robot to participate
(as goalkeeper or striker). The team leader communicates the selection to the head referee by
5Which goal to use for the shoot-out is decided in agreement with the teams, or otherwise by a coin toss.
53
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
privately handing the referee a card with their chosen number. After both teams have selected
their player, the GameController operator selects the requested striker and goalkeeper robots and
the GameController communicates that all non-selected robots are substitutes and should remain
inactive. The GameController indicates which team has the striker robot in the current penalty kick.
Referees place the ball, the striker, and goalkeeper robots. The ball is placed on the penalty mark
closest to the goal being defended. The striker robot is positioned on the edge of the penalty area,
facing the ball and the goal. The goalkeeper is placed with its feet on the goal line and in the center
of the goal. Neither robot is permitted to locomote during the set state.
The head referee commences the penalty kick by blowing the whistle once and calling “Playing”.
The GameController activates the playing state after the standard delay.
The time limit for the striker is 60 s after the penalty kick starts. A penalty kick is over when the
ball has come to a full stop after the first contact by the striker robot. The striker robot is not
allowed to play the ball a second time after the ball has clearly moved, otherwise the penalty kick
ends immediately. A goal is awarded to the attacking team if a goal has been scored (the ball has
completely crossed the goal line) before the penalty kick is over. Otherwise, the score is unchanged.
The goalkeeper robot must always be in contact with the goal line and must remain on its feet until
the striker robot touches the ball. The goalkeeper is only permitted to “dive” and be off its feet after
the attacking robot has touched the ball. If the goalkeeper violates these rules, the penalty kick ends
immediately and a goal is awarded to the attacking team.
All rules such as Ball Holding and Pushing are applied during the penalty kick. A goalkeeper will
not be penalized for inactivity during a penalty kick, provided it is actively attempting to defend.
§ 14.2.2 Sudden Death Shoot-Out If teams remain tied after the initial three penalty kicks
each, sudden death begins. Teams take one additional penalty kick each, and the game decision is
made as follows:
Each kick is ranked in one of the following categories (from best to worst):
1. Goal scored
2. Kick at the goal that is blocked by the goalkeeper
3. Kick that hits a goalpost
4. Kick that crosses the goal line next to the goalposts
5. Any other kick
6. No kick
If both teams’ kicks rank in different categories, the team with the higher ranked kick wins.
Otherwise, the sudden death is repeated. If after 3 sudden death penalty kicks there is still no winner,
the referee will toss a coin to decide the game.
54
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 15 Kick-in / Throw-in
A kick-in (or throw-in) is an indirect free kick (see § 13). A kick-in is awarded to the opponents of
the player who last touched the ball when the whole of the ball leaves the field of play by crossing
the touchline, either on the ground or in the air. Balls are deemed to be out based on the team that
last touched the ball, irrespective of who actually kicked the ball.
§ 15.1 Ball Placement
The ball is placed on the touchline at the point where it left the field.
§ 15.2 Throw-in Option
Robots may also perform a throw-in with their hands instead of kicking. When performing a
throw-in with hands, the robot must:
• Face the field of play.
• Have part of each foot either on the touchline or on the ground outside the touchline.
• Hold the ball with at least one hand.
• Deliver the ball from behind and over its head.
• Release the ball within 10 seconds.
If a robot attempts to perform a throw-in with hands and fails to respect these rules, a free kick is
awarded to the opposing team.
§ 15.3 Examples
Example 1: A blue robot at midfield kicks the ball over the left touchline 2 m into the red half of
the field. The referee calls “Kick-in red” and the ball is replaced on the left touchline where it went
out.
55
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
Example 2: A blue robot kicks the ball but the ball touches a red robot at midfield before leaving
the field near the halfway line. The ball is regarded as out by red; the referee calls “Kick-in blue”
and the ball is replaced on the touchline where it went out.
§ 15.4 Procedural Requirements
All opponents must stand at least the center circle radius (see Table 2) from the point at which the
kick-in is taken. The ball is in play when it enters the field of play. After delivering the ball, the
kicking robot must not touch the ball again until it has touched another player.
§ 15.5 Offenses and Sanctions
If, after the ball is in play, the kicker touches the ball again before it has touched another player:
• An indirect free kick is awarded to the opposing team, to be taken from the place where the
infringement occurred.
If, after the ball is in play, the kicker deliberately handles the ball before it has touched another
player:
• A direct free kick is awarded to the opposing team, to be taken from the place where the
infringement occurred.
• A penalty kick is awarded if the infringement occurred inside the kicker’s penalty area.
If an opponent unfairly distracts or impedes the kicker, they are cautioned for unsporting behaviour.
For any other infringement of this rule, the kick-in is taken by a player of the opposing team.
§ 16 Goal Kick
A goal kick is a direct free kick (see § 13) awarded when the whole of the ball passes over the goal
line, either on the ground or in the air, having last touched a player of the attacking team, and a goal
is not scored.
§ 16.1 Ball Placement
The ball is placed on the corner of the goal area on the same side of the field that the ball went out.
That is, the corner inside the field where the goal area line meets the goal line (not the T-junction on
the goal line itself).
56
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 16.2 Avoidance Region
For a goal kick, the avoidance region is the entire penalty area. All robots of the opposing team
must remain outside the penalty area until the ball is in play (see § 13).
§ 16.3 Example
Example: A blue robot kicks the ball out the end of the field to the right of the goal the red team is
defending. The referee calls “Goal Kick red” and the ball is placed on the right corner of the goal
area.
§ 16.4 Offenses and Sanctions
If, after the ball is in play, the kicker touches the ball again before it has touched another player:
• An indirect free kick is awarded to the opposing team, to be taken from the place where the
infringement occurred.
If, after the ball is in play, the kicker deliberately handles the ball before it has touched another
player:
• A direct free kick is awarded to the opposing team, to be taken from the place where the
infringement occurred.
• A penalty kick is awarded if the infringement occurred inside the kicker’s penalty area.
In the event of any other infringement, the kick is retaken.
§ 17 Corner Kick
A corner kick is a direct free kick (see § 13) awarded when the whole of the ball passes over the
goal line, either on the ground or in the air, having last touched a player of the defending team, and
a goal is not scored.
§ 17.1 Ball Placement
The ball is placed on the corner of the field on the same side that the ball went out.
57
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
§ 17.2 Example
Example: The red goalkeeper kicks the ball out the end of the field to the right of the goal. The
referee calls “Corner Kick blue”, the ball is placed on the corner to the right of the goal, and a free
kick is started.
§ 17.3 Offenses and Sanctions
If, after the ball is in play, the kicker touches the ball again before it has touched another player:
• An indirect free kick is awarded to the opposing team, to be taken from the place where the
infringement occurred.
If, after the ball is in play, the kicker deliberately handles the ball before it has touched another
player:
• A direct free kick is awarded to the opposing team, to be taken from the place where the
infringement occurred.
• A penalty kick is awarded if the infringement occurred inside the kicker’s penalty area.
In the event of any other infringement, the kick is retaken.
58
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
IV Law Changes
These rules were designed for RoboCup 2026 and the newly founded Humanoid Soccer League.
They are based on the rule-books of the former Standard Platform League, Humanoid League
KidSize and Humanoid League AdultSize. This section is reserved for future changes.
59
Rule Book RoboCup Humanoid Soccer League 2026-04-30
A Field Technical Drawings
Missing - to be done
60